Drug addiction is the most well known form, and its stigma can be cruel to those who suffer under this condition. What makes it especially complicated is that it not only affects one mentally, but 
physiologically. However, drug addiction can happen to people of all walks of life, and anyone is capable of kicking it to the curb. With this step-by-step process, you will be on your way to a healthier,
drug-free life!

(1)ADMIT TO YOURSELF THAT YOU HAVE A PROBLEM!!! Yell it at your wall, the streets, write it on a piece of paper, even type it in a word document and print it out, whatever it takes for
    you to ingrain this concept into your brain.

(2)While addiction will never truly go away, the first 3 days of withdrawal are the hardest, and will become easier as you become stronger and better! This is a tough task for even the best of people, so do 
    not despair if you feel yourself succumbing to temptation. Whatever happens, the one thing you should never do is to give up!

(3)As your substance is no longer there to deal with stress, you may find yourself justifying the drug and its pull on your body. DO NOT GIVE IN! In the case of nicotine, nicotine gum and patches are a good
    way to ease into quitting cold turkey. It will also benefit you if you channel your stress into different, more productive habits, such as exercise, drawing, and meditation.

(4)If you are able, seek professional help. They can provide you with therepy, medications to wean your cravings, and a compassionate shoulder to lean on. 

Good luck on your future endeavors!

If you or a loved one are struggling with substance use or addiction, contact the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) National Helpline at 1-800-662-4357 for information on support and treatment facilities in your area. 

References:
(1)Elizabeth Hartney, BSc. “Quitting an Addiction and Overcoming Obstacles.” Verywell Mind, 23 Mar. 2020, www.verywellmind.com/how-can-i-quit-my-addiction-22390.




